JUDY WOODRUFF: And that brings us to the analysis
of Shields and Brooks. That's syndicated columnist
Mark Shields and New York Times columnist
David Brooks.
Hello to both of you.
David, let's start with these allegations
against the former vice president and his
response to them today.
What do you make of all this?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, I think we should keep
an open mind.
On the one hand, she made them contemporaneously.
She told people at the time that this had
happened, and so that has some persuasive
evidence to it.
On the other hand, she said that she told
three members of the Biden staff, including
Ted Kaufman, his chief of staff, and they
do not remember any such conversation, and
they are convinced that, if they had such
a conversation, it would be seared into their
memory.
And then I guess the second point on the Biden
side is that Biden is -- has many flaws. I
have covered him for many years. Cruelty is
not one of them. Dehumanization is not one
of them.
And so I think, for a lot of his colleagues
and a lot of people who've just known him,
it seems uncharacteristic.
But that's not to say we should close the
book on it. We should see if there is this
complaint. We should see if there are other
victims. I guess Ms. Reade is going to speak
over the weekend. And so I think it's important
to hear out these allegations, but not take
them as prima facie truth.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, what do you make of this?
I mean, Biden acknowledges that he has said
in the past that women are to be believed.
MARK SHIELDS: He has, Judy. And that is very
much the position of the Democratic Party,
and certainly was in the Kavanaugh hearings
of the Supreme Court last fall.
I would say this. First of all, it was categorical.
It wasn't to the best of my recollection kind
of answer by Joe Biden. It was a categorical,
unequivocal denial that this ever happened.
And there was no attempt to trash the accuser
or anything of the sort. He -- I thought he
confronted it well. He had to. He didn't have
any option in it.
I would add this, Judy. Washington is a pretty
small town. And on Capitol Hill, where we
have spent a lot of time over the past 45
years, you get -- the word circulates pretty
quickly about who is Senator Grabby and who's
Congressman Leering or Lustful, that women
reporters or women staff members ought not
to be in the same elevator with or stay away
from.
I have never and I don't know anyone else
who's heard about Joe Biden in those terms.
That is not -- that is characteristically
not Joe Biden. And he was somebody who went
home every night on the train to Wilmington.
I mean, he wasn't a nightlife guy. He wasn't
an on-the-town fellow.
I mean, so it does sound -- on its face, it's
a hard sell.
But I agree with David that we listen to the
-- Ms. Reade and what she has to say in her
interviews.
And I really think, at some point, Joe Biden
will have to deputize some group to look at
the pages in the Delaware -- University of
Delaware zone, to see if there's references
to it.
I just think that's -- whether it's historic
-- Karen Tumulty suggested it today in her
Washington Post column. And I think it made
a lot of sense.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You do think that those records
will have to be opened up.
David, and in terms of what voters weigh,
do they -- I mean, given the multiple allegations
against President Trump, how are voters to
make sense of this?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, the fact that Trump made
a statement about this at all and attacked
Joe Biden is like the -- wins the hutzpah
of the year award.
But I don't think it's going to be up to voters.
I think this is up to Democrats and Democratic
delegates. They're going to have to decide
if this is true and if they can nominate this
person.
And so far, as Nancy Pelosi says, they're
feeling very comfortable with it. And all
the -- Stacey Abrams and Kirsten Gillibrand,
and all the -- a lot of -- Kamala Harris,
they're sticking by Joe so far.
And so I think it's really up to the delegates
more than it'll be up to the voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, you agree?
MARK SHIELDS: I do, Judy.
I think it will be -- if there's a confrontation,
it will be in the Democratic Party. I mean,
that will be it. But I think that Joe Biden
comes into it with considerable credibility.
And that's it.
But I do think he has to be totally forthcoming
on this. I really do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's turn to the pandemic.
The "NewsHour" spent a lot of time tonight
and last night and before that looking, David,
at the effect this has had on people's livelihoods.
We know some states are opening up, but, in
other states, it's not fast enough for people.
We're seeing these protests in California,
in Michigan yesterday, where people carried
guns actually into the state Senate chamber.
The president has somehow encouraged some
of them. He's called today -- in a tweet,
he called some of them good people.
How are governors to handle this under the
circumstances?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, this is -- from what I
can tell, radical fringe elements. They completely
do not represent the country.
The country is relatively united. We're used
to a divided country. And America is still
divided about Donald Trump. America is not
divided about much else; 89 percent of Republicans
and 89 percent of Democrats like the federal
aid packages; 70 percent think that we're
going to need another -- aid packages.
Something like 85 percent of Americans think
-- are supporting the social distancing. So,
America is united here. And the governors
just need to do what they need to do for the
economy, but listening to fringe elements
who storm them with guns and Confederate Flags
doesn't strike me as a very sensible thing
to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, how are governors to
walk this line at this time, when people really
are hurting, and many of them sincerely think
their states are wrong to extend these -- these
shutdown orders?
MARK SHIELDS: No, you're right, Judy.
But just point to a recent national survey
of 22,000 people in all 50 states, and by
-- overwhelmingly, Americans support and back
the handling of the coronavirus by their governor;
66 percent of Americans say that their governor
is doing a -- they approve of the work their
governor is doing.
Only 44 percent of Americans approve of the
job the president is doing in handling the
coronavirus. So, I think that the governors
have enormous credibility.
In the state of Michigan, I think that Governor
Whitmer was at 63 percent approval, and Donald
Trump was at 36 percent approval. So, I think
the president makes a serious mistake, and
he should have learned from Charlottesville,
when he starts endorsing as good people folks
who are carrying "Heil Whitmer" signs and
swastikas and brandishing assault weapons
in the state capitol, with kerchiefs over
their face.
I mean, to me, that is -- that is a fringe
group. And I think you're risking, if you're
Donald Trump, not only some personal or public
hurt and pain, but also responsibility for
same.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
David, as we think about helping the folks
who are on the front lines, who are -- who
are putting their -- frankly, their lives,
their health at risk, it's coming -- it's
becoming the next big debate in the Congress.
And that's over help for state and local governments.
That includes first responders. It includes
some EMS workers and others. Democrats are
saying, this is crucial. Republicans, like
Leader Mitch McConnell in the Senate, are
saying, look, some of these states have not
spent their money wisely. Why should we bail
them out?
Where -- where are you on this debate at this
stage?
DAVID BROOKS: We're going to need to do more.
I think 70 percent of Americans think so.
I certainly think so, something on the order
of $400 million even just in the small business
loans.
And so I think it's not stupid to take a pause
for a week or two. I don't think we know -- I
want to make sure we spend it well. We have
gotten a lot of money out the door, and maybe
some in wasteful ways, but I think we have
gotten it out the door, which is the important
thing.
But pausing to see what's working and what's
not working seems to be the better part of
wisdom here. I'm focusing especially on young
people. A lot of people next fall, a lot of
young adults will be without school and without
jobs.
And this strikes me as the perfect moment
to do an emergency national service program
to employ a lot of young people, maybe to
help with the effects of the pandemics, the
track and trace. But these are the kind of
screaming needs that are out there in the
country right now.
And I think it's time right now to do something.
But figuring out exactly what can wait a week
or two, but I do think definitely more will
be needed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And more federal money, Mark,
whether it's for national service, as David
is describing, or more aid for these -- for
these state governments, local governments
that are really pinched right now.
MARK SHIELDS: They're very pinched, Judy.
Mitch McConnell talks about the blue state
bailout. If we want to be blunt about it,
the giver and the getter states, the states
that get money from Washington, Mitch McConnell's
Kentucky is right at the top, $146 billion
over the past four years, by the Rockefeller
Institute.
At the same time, those blue states, those
terrible blue states, like New York, sent
$116 billion more to Washington than they
have ever gotten back. Massachusetts has sent
$47 billion more. So has Connecticut, 71 -- I'm
sorry -- New Jersey, $71 billion, Connecticut.
All the blue states spend more money. If Mitch
McConnell wants us to be every man and person
for himself, then let's let those states keep
their money. They'd be in perfect shape if
New York had an extra $116 billion.
When we have an earthquake in this country,
when we have a tidal wave or a hurricane,
we aid the states. We come together. And that's
what's happened.
I mean, the states bear an enormous burden
in our public services in this state -- in
our country, in our system. And they have
got to -- the Congress has to step up and
provide the money for them.
This is a Republican Senate, let it be noted,
that put a $135 billion tax cut in, in the
bailout bill to help small businesses and
families for the top 1 percent. In order to
qualify for it, you had to at least make $10,000
a week.
Now, if that's somehow OK, but not helping
schools and health systems and first responders,
I don't see the value.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we will find out more
next week.
The Senate is coming back into session. The
House is not, on the advice of, I guess, the
House -- the congressional physician. But
the Senate is coming back, and maybe we will
learn a little more.
Mark Shields, David Brooks, thank you both.
Please stay safe.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.